All right, so let's talk about Java operators.
Java operators are symbols that are used
to perform mathematical or logical manipulations
and have two types of classifications.
The first classification is based on the number of operands
the operator has, unary, binary, ternary.
And the second classification is the type
of operation it performs.
When talking about operators, it's important to know,
firstly the precedence of an operator.
Unary operators are evaluated before binary operators.
Among the unary operators, the postfix increment
and decrement operators have the highest precedence.
Unary operators with the exception
of the pre and postfix operators promote the variable
to and int if it's smaller than an int.
If all operators have the same precedence,
the expression with be evaluated from left to right
with the exception of the simple and compound
assignment operators which are evaluated right to left.
And finally, parentheses always take precedence.
All right so, unary operators,
expressions with unary operators group right to left
so that minus Bitwise complement operator x
means the same as minus parentheses
Bitwise complement operator x.
So, looking at this table we've got minus minus,
which is the prefix decrement and the postfix decrement,
depending on how it's used.
In the example, when the prefix is --a,
that decrements the value of a before the expression
is evaluated and a-- decrements the value of a
after the expression is evaluated.
Just as a note there, it's possible that a variable
will go out scope before the post decrement can occur.
Moving on, we've got the plus plus increment.
So, we've got a prefix and a postfix increment here.
And the example is very similar to the decrement operator.
++a increments the value of a
before the expression is evaluated,
and a++ increments the value of a
after the expression is evaluated.
Same deal with that in terms of scope.
It's possible that a variable will go out of scope
before the post decrement can occur.
Moving down, we've got minus,
which is the unary minus operator, -a is the example,
and it returns the negated value of a without actually
changing the value of a.
So, if a is a data type with a size less than an int,
note that a will get promoted to an int.
Or in other words, what is returned will be promoted.
All right, we've got the unary plus,
+a is the example.
It's allowable, but does nothing to the value of a.
If a is a data type with a size less than an int,
then note again that a will be promoted to an int.
That's not something you would normally use very often.
We've got the naught, the logical complement operator.
!a returns the complement of a boolean value.
We've got the Bitwise complement operator, the tilde sign,
so that one is the Bitwise complement,
turns a one to zero, or zero to one.
In all cases, Bitwise complement operator x
equals (-x)-1.
And then we've got the cast operator,
which is the type in parentheses ahead
of the actual data type itself.
Right, so let's finish the video here.
We've done some theory.
And we'll start actually doing some code
relating to this in the next video.